Mages come in many forms in the Kingdom of Albany, and not all magical practitioners are recognised as equal.
The study of the arcane arts has come under close scrutiny in recent years, and as the Order of the Magisterium grows in sheer size and power, magical studies have been subject to increasing restrictions and audits.

Currently, young mages have a few options should they wish to improve their magic; If they are an elf, there is little to worry about. Due to their bloodlines, all elves manifest elemental magic from birth.
Some time before they reach their 300th birthday, an elf will have undertaken lessons from both a sun-blooded and moon-blooded elven tutor, ensuring that they are able to show some degree of control over all four elements (though most tend to favour the elements their bloodline naturally manifests).
Some elves continue their studies beyond strictly elemental magics - again, this study is attributed to elven sages and sorcerers who have shown mastery in these fields of study.
A similar path is followed for young Fens. The Fens and the elves both have a deep respect for nature; much of their religion and ideaology was grown from the same roots.

While not all Fens show the same innate arcane talent that the elves do (Fens being comprised of many varied races, after all), they will all have the opportunity to go on pilgrimages to sites of natural arcane importance.
Here they stay for a time, studying and meditating on their magic. Often these sites act as a meeting point for Fen students and teachers to share their findings with one another. But what of those who do not live a secluded Elven or nomadic Fen lifestyle?
Fortunately, the Van der Kaag Academy has historically offered arcane studies as an optional part of its curriculum. The Academy is not exclusively a school for magic - it has three campuses and teaches a number of different subjects.
All appointed court mages of the Kingdom of Albany have undertaken the required arcane examinations and audits by the Academy (and many were students themselves).

Historically, a mage who has been audited by the academy and deemed a skilled practitioner of the arcane arts has then been able to take on their own students for tutoring in their own respective regions (provided they too come in for periodic examinations).
However in more recent years, this practice has been quietly discouraged. It is unclear whether the whispers that the Magisterium are looking to have all the mages in the continent come under their teaching are simply malicious rumours or something more.
Perhaps the most extreme measures of magical tutelage come from the military in the Crownlands. Though rare in times of peace, mages who show signs of promise at a young age may be conscripted into the Arcane branch of the military.
Little is known of their teaching, but the results tend to speak for themselves. 

These military mages, and those who have been trained and audited by the Academy are the only mages considered of real worth in the Kingdom of Albany.
In short, those who want to study magic legitimately must do so via the Academy. 
Students at the Academy must pass their examinations in order to be recognised as a practitioner of the arcane arts.
Those who cannot meet the Academy's standard are discouraged from practicing magic of any sort.